README.md, before:

# To Install
(Re)move ~/.vim and ~/.vimrc if you have them already, and run:

    git clone https://github.com/pivotalcommon/vim-config.git ~/.vim
    ~/.vim/bin/install

# Updating
Fetch the latest version of vim-config and install all the new bundles by running:

    ~/.vim/bin/update

# Upgrading from an old vim-config

If you're upgrading from a previous version that uses Pathogen instead of
Vundle, you may need to do some one-time cleanup:

    ~/.vim/bin/upgrade

# Functionality

Plugins and configuration provide most of the functionality of the pivotal vim
config.  Below is a broad overview of the included plugins and what they do.
Each plugin is linked to its documentation page, when readng the docs keep in
mind that this config has comma mapped as the leader key:

## Rails
* [vim-rails](https://github.com/tpope/vim-rails) lets `gf` and `:Rextract` work on partials, highlights Rails functions.
* [vim-endwise](https://github.com/tpope/vim-endwise) automatically puts in `end`s for your` if` and `do` blocks.
* [vim-ruby-refactoring](https://github.com/ecomba/vim-ruby-refactoring) gives some IDE-like refactoring support to vim.  A favorite is `:RExtractLet` (aliased as `,rel`) which takes a local variable in a spec and makes it into a let statement. Others are `:RAddParameter`, `:RInlineTemp`, `:RConvertPostConditional`, `:RExtractConstant`, `:RExtractLocalVariable`, `:RRenameLocalVariable`, `:RRenameInstanceVariable`, `:RExtractMethod`.  They can also be accessed with the leader key followed by the capital letters in the command, so `:RAlphaBeta` becomes `,rab`.
* [test_server](https://github.com/brysgo/test_server) lets you use F9 thru F12 to run specs and report the output in vim.
* [vim-blockle](https://github.com/jgdavey/vim-blockle) lets you change a `do..end` into a `{..}` by pressing `b` with the cursor on part of the block.
* Convert a line with `local_variable_foo` to `let(:local_variable_foo) { double(:local_variable_foo) }` with `,ld`.  Just place your cursor anywhere on the variable and press `,ld`.

## General Editing
* [vim-surround](https://github.com/tpope/vim-surround) helps add/remove/change surround parentheses, quotes, and XML tags.  Inside of `"yolokitten"`, type `cs"'` to switch the surround double quotes to single quotes.  `t` can generally be used to refer to XML tags, so inside of `<tag>Hello</tag>` you can do `cit` to modify the word "Hello."  To add quotes around something, you can use the command `ys` followed by a motion and the character to surround it with.  For instance, inside of "hello", typing `ysiw(` will change it to "( hello )".
    * [vim-repeat](https://github.com/tpope/vim-repeat) lets plugins override `.` (the period) to repeat commands.  Allows you to use `.` with the vim-surround magic above.
* [nerdcommenter](https://github.com/scrooloose/nerdcommenter) lets you comment and uncomment things.  The most useful command is `,/` which comments or uncomments either the current line or the currently selected block.  This config has `,/` mapped to the Toggle instead of `,c` as listed in the docs (the rest of the commands use the `c` as listed).
* [vim-unimpaired](https://github.com/tpope/vim-unimpaired) contains a bunch of shortcuts for longer commands that start with colons.  Some of the better ones are:
    * `]q` and `[q` to go back and forth through the quickfix list (the result of using `:Ag` or `:Ack`).
    * `[f` and `]f` to navigate through files in the same directory as the current file.
    * `]n` and `[n` to go through merge conflicts.
    * It's not provided by this plugin, but `[h` and `]h` let you move through working copy changes in git in a similar manner.
* [gundo](http://sjl.bitbucket.org/gundo.vim/) lets you navigate your vim undo history as a tree.  Ever do that thing where you undo a few times, make a change, and want to undo your initial undo?  Type `:GundoToggle` and use the arrow keys to find the version you want.
* [tabular](https://github.com/godlygeek/tabular) makes it easy to make pretty ASCII tables and align equal signs of successive variable definitions.
* [syntastic](https://github.com/scrooloose/syntastic) runs your compiler or interpreter and displays syntax errors in vim.  A `>>` in the gutter means there is an error on that line, you can mouse over it for more details.
* [vim-airline](https://github.com/bling/vim-airline) sets the status bar and makes it more configurable and useful by showing things like the current Git branch, etc.
* [supertab](https://github.com/ervandew/supertab) lets you press Tab after Ctrl-P or Ctrl-N to cycle through completion options.
* [j-split](https://github.com/mgamba/j-split/blob/master/plugin/j-split.vim) converts spaces in the current line to new lines by pressing `,j` (kind of like a simple use of `xargs`).
* [diffthese](https://github.com/matt-royal/diffthese) lets you use vimdiff on open windows.  You can use `:DiffLeft`, `:DiffRight`, etc.  `:DiffThese` lets you specify window numbers with number 1 in the top left, increasing clockwise.
* [camelcasemotion](http://www.vim.org/scripts/script.php?script_id=1905) defines motions to work on camelCase text.  The usual motions `w`, `b`, and `e` get the friends `,w`, `,b`, and `,e` that move within a word.  If your cursor is on the first letter of `lolCatAge` and you press `,w`, you will go the "C" in "Cat."  You can also use them as text objects, for instance if you are on the lowercase "a" in "lolCatAge" you can type `ci,w` to change it to 'lolDogAge'.
* [edit-plus](https://github.com/mgamba/edit-plus/blob/master/plugin/edit-plus.vim) lets you refer to line numbers when opening files.  For instance, type `:EP README.md:10` to jump to line 10 of your helpful README.  Sometimes when you type `:e` it is automatically changed to `:EP`.  This is useful for opening test failures from the command line into vim.
* [quickfixfix](https://github.com/brysgo/quickfixfix) maps the NERDtree key bindings to the quickfix window.  If you open NERDtree (`\\`) and press `?`, the descriptions of `o`, `i`, `s`, and `go` can be used in the quickfix window.
* [vim-easymotion](https://github.com/Lokaltog/vim-easymotion) lets you use see where repeated motions would take you.  If you've ever used vimium's link navigation, it's like that.  Type the leader key twice and a motion to see a bunch of annotations in your file based on where repeated uses of that motion would take you, then press a number to go there.  For instance, to jump 2 words you can do `,,wb` instead of `2w`.
* [regreplop](http://www.vim.org/scripts/script.php?script_id=2702) lets you paste text over other text without destroying your default register.  Usually, if you yanked something and wanted to paste it over a word using `viwp`, you couldn't paste it again because the word you deleted overwrote what you originally yanked.  This plugin provides Ctrl-K to paste while keeping your buffer.  You can use it in visual mode or follow <Ctrl-K> with a motion.  Very handy for repeated replacements.
* [insert_mode_background_color](https://github.com/Peeja/insert_mode_background_color) changes the background color when you are insert mode.
* [vim-cdo](https://github.com/Peeja/vim-cdo) runs commands on every entry in the quickfix or location windows.  For instance, if you just searched for something with `:L9GrepBuffer foo` or `:Ag foo` and want to change the foos you found into bar, you could run `:Cdo s/foo/bar/`.  If you're doing a replacement like that, make sure not to do `:Cdo %s/.../...` with the percent sign because the first replacement in a file will mess up the later ones.  `:Ldo` is the same but for the location list, and suffix your commands with `/c` to confirm changes.
* [vim-snipmate](https://github.com/garbas/vim-snipmate) and [vim-snippets](https://github.com/honza/vim-snippets) provide TextMate like snippets where you can jump around the snippet with the tab key.
    * [vim-addon-mw-utils](https://github.com/MarcWeber/vim-addon-mw-utils) is a prequisite of snipmate
    * [tlib_vim](https://github.com/tomtom/tlib_vim) is as well
* [vim-textobj-user](https://github.com/kana/vim-textobj-user) allows definition of custom vim "nouns".
  * [vim-textobj-rubyblock](https://github.com/nelstrom/vim-textobj-rubyblock) lets you use `ar` and `ir` to select Ruby blocks just like you can do `a"` to select a string.
  * [kana/vim-textobj-line](https://github.com/kana/vim-textobj-line) selects entire lines.
    * `il` selects the entire line without leading or trailing whitespace.
    * `al` selects the entire line with all whitespace except for the linebreak.
    * `dd` continues to select the entire line including the linebreak.
  * [thinca/vim-textobj-between](https://github.com/thinca/vim-textobj-between) selects between arbitrary delimiters.
    * `if<delimiter>` selects the region between the delimiters, excluding the delimiters themselves.
    * `af<delimiter>` selects the region between the delimiters plus the delimiters.
    * Particularly useful with URLs. If `|` represents the cursor position: `/demonstration/with/riculo|usly/long/pathname/  -> cif/notso -> /demonstration/with/notso/long/pathname/`
  * [Julian/vim-textobj-variable-segment](https://github.com/Julian/vim-textobj-variable-segment) selects pieces of snake case or camel case identifiers. If `|` represents the cursor position:
    * `foo_ba|r_baz -> civquux -> foo_quux_baz`
    * `eggsAn|dCheese -> civOr -> eggsOrCheese`
* [YankRing](http://www.vim.org/scripts/script.php?script_id=1234)
lets you view and cycle through your previous copy and paste registers on the fly
	* After pasting use `<C-tab>` and `<C-S-tab>` to cycle through previously copied text.
	* In normal mode press `F6` to view previously copied text. Select one to paste it.

## Window Management
* [ZoomWin](http://www.vim.org/scripts/script.php?script_id=508) lets you close all other windows with `<C-w>o`.  You can restore all the closed windows with the same command.  Useful with `:tabo` to close everything but what you're working on.

## Searching
* [ack](https://github.com/mileszs/ack.vim) lets you shell out to ack within vim using `:Ack pattern [directory]`.  By default, results show up in the quickfix window.  You can use `:AckAdd` to append to the quickfix window or prefix 'Ack' with an 'L' to use the location list (just like `:grep`'s siblings).
* [ag](https://github.com/epmatsw/ag.vim) is the above but for ag ([a faster ack replacement](https://github.com/ggreer/the_silver_searcher))
* [vim-abolish](https://github.com/tpope/vim-abolish) deserves a few lines:
    * It replaces `teh` with `the`.  Say hello to autocorrect memes, Ruby edition.  You can define your own with a regex-like syntax.
    * It helps you replace things with capitalization differences.  If you had the line `foo = Foo.new`, you could run `:S/foo/bar/g` to get `bar = Bar.new` (note the capital 'S').  You can also use curly braces like you would on the command line, for instance `:%S/facilit{y,ies}/building{,s}/g`.
    * It converts between camelCase and snake_case.  Use `cr` followed 's' for snake_case, 'm' for MixedCase, 'c' for camelCase, or 'u' for UPPER_CASE (these work within the current word and don't take a motion).
* [vim-qargs](https://github.com/nelstrom/vim-qargs) ([stack overflow](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/5686206/search-replace-using-quickfix-list-in-vim/5686810#5686810)) is kind of like Cdo.
* [ctrlp](https://github.com/kien/ctrlp.vim) is a fuzzy file finder invoked by hitting Ctrl-P in normal mode and typing some part of the file name you'd like to open.  This config also has `,f` mapped to the same function.

## Navigation
* [nerdtree](https://github.com/scrooloose/nerdtree) puts a directory tree on the left side of the screen.  Press `\` to open it at your project root, or `Shift-\` to open it with the current file selected.  You can press `m` to move, delete, or create files.  Press `?` inside the tree to get more help.
* [tagbar](http://majutsushi.github.io/tagbar/) puts ctags for the current file in a pane on the right.  Make sure [ctags](http://ctags.sourceforge.net/) is installed and then do `:TagbarToggle` to see them in vim.

## Development Tool Integration
* [vim-fugitive](https://github.com/tpope/vim-fugitive) puts git into vim.  It can do almost everything git related, some of the most useful features are:
    * `:Gblame` to blame the current file.  Press enter on a commit to see the full commit.  Do `:Gedit` to go back to the current version (or just open it again).
    * `:Gread` to check out the current file from git.  Very useful if you made some experimental changes that you want to get rid of.
    * `:Gbrowse` to open the current file on GitHub, useful for sending links to other people.
* [vim-gitgutter](https://github.com/airblade/vim-gitgutter) puts + and - signs in the gutter to show you what's changed in your working tree.  Use `[h` and `]h` to navigate between modified hunks. This plugin can slow down vim, so remove it if you're having problems.
* [tmux-config](https://github.com/pivotal/tmux-config) integrates tmux with Vim.  It helps with autosave support and pasting your tmux buffer into vim.
* [vim-dispatch](https://github.com/tpope/vim-dispatch) supplies `:Make` and `:Make!` which run in the background instead of blocking like `:make`.
* [ConqueTerm](http://code.google.com/p/conque/) lets your run interactive commands within vim.  Try `:ConqueTerm bash`.
* [vitality.vim](https://github.com/sjl/vitality.vim) makes Vim play nicely with iTerm2 and tmux. It adds things like cursor change on insert mode and focus-lost detection for triggering auto-save.

## Colorschemes
* [Vivid Chalk](https://github.com/tpope/vim-vividchalk)
* [Molokai](https://github.com/tomasr/molokai)
* [Solarized](http://ethanschoonover.com/solarized) ([github](https://github.com/altercation/vim-colors-solarized))
* [ir_black](https://github.com/wesgibbs/vim-irblack)
* [tomorrow](https://github.com/chriskempson/vim-tomorrow-theme)
* [candycode](http://www.vim.org/scripts/script.php?script_id=1635)
* Color-Sampler-Pack
* [colorschemes](https://github.com/flazz/vim-colorschemes)
* [base16](https://github.com/chriskempson/base16-vim)

## Languages
* [vim-ruby](https://github.com/vim-ruby/vim-ruby)
* [vim-javascript](https://github.com/pangloss/vim-javascript)
* [vim-markdown](https://github.com/plasticboy/vim-markdown)
* [vim-slim](https://github.com/slim-template/vim-slim)
* [vim-handlebars](https://github.com/nono/vim-handlebars)
* [vim-coffee-script](https://github.com/kchmck/vim-coffee-script)
* [vim-haml](https://github.com/tpope/vim-haml)
* [vim-cucumber](https://github.com/tpope/vim-cucumber)
* [mustache.vim](https://github.com/juvenn/mustache.vim)
* [vim-gocode](https://github.com/Blackrush/vim-gocode)
* [scala-vim-support](https://github.com/rosstimson/scala-vim-support)
* [vim-clojure-static](https://github.com/guns/vim-clojure-static)
* [csv.vim](https://github.com/chrisbra/csv.vim)

# Advanced

## Updating manually

First, fetch the latest vim-config via Git. You can also rebase or merge your
own project-specific customizations.

To install the necessary bundles:

    vim +PluginInstall +qall # or run :PluginInstall within Vim

To upgrade bundles to their latest version, use the bang version:

    vim +PluginInstall! +qall # or run :PluginInstall! within Vim

## tmux support (optional)

If you will be using VIM with tmux for remote pairing or window management, see
the [pivotal/tmux-config README](https://github.com/pivotal/tmux-config).

Commit message:

Added a Launch Academy VIM tutorial

README.md, after:

# To Install
(Re)move ~/.vim and ~/.vimrc if you have them already, and run:

    git clone https://github.com/pivotalcommon/vim-config.git ~/.vim
    ~/.vim/bin/install

# Updating
Fetch the latest version of vim-config and install all the new bundles by running:

    ~/.vim/bin/update

# Upgrading from an old vim-config

If you're upgrading from a previous version that uses Pathogen instead of
Vundle, you may need to do some one-time cleanup:

    ~/.vim/bin/upgrade

# Functionality

Plugins and configuration provide most of the functionality of the pivotal vim
config.  Below is a broad overview of the included plugins and what they do.
Each plugin is linked to its documentation page, when readng the docs keep in
mind that this config has comma mapped as the leader key:

# Launch Academy VIM Tutorial (For this config)

[Learn how to use this VIM config]()

## Rails
* [vim-rails](https://github.com/tpope/vim-rails) lets `gf` and `:Rextract` work on partials, highlights Rails functions.
* [vim-endwise](https://github.com/tpope/vim-endwise) automatically puts in `end`s for your` if` and `do` blocks.
* [vim-ruby-refactoring](https://github.com/ecomba/vim-ruby-refactoring) gives some IDE-like refactoring support to vim.  A favorite is `:RExtractLet` (aliased as `,rel`) which takes a local variable in a spec and makes it into a let statement. Others are `:RAddParameter`, `:RInlineTemp`, `:RConvertPostConditional`, `:RExtractConstant`, `:RExtractLocalVariable`, `:RRenameLocalVariable`, `:RRenameInstanceVariable`, `:RExtractMethod`.  They can also be accessed with the leader key followed by the capital letters in the command, so `:RAlphaBeta` becomes `,rab`.
* [test_server](https://github.com/brysgo/test_server) lets you use F9 thru F12 to run specs and report the output in vim.
* [vim-blockle](https://github.com/jgdavey/vim-blockle) lets you change a `do..end` into a `{..}` by pressing `b` with the cursor on part of the block.
* Convert a line with `local_variable_foo` to `let(:local_variable_foo) { double(:local_variable_foo) }` with `,ld`.  Just place your cursor anywhere on the variable and press `,ld`.

## General Editing
* [vim-surround](https://github.com/tpope/vim-surround) helps add/remove/change surround parentheses, quotes, and XML tags.  Inside of `"yolokitten"`, type `cs"'` to switch the surround double quotes to single quotes.  `t` can generally be used to refer to XML tags, so inside of `<tag>Hello</tag>` you can do `cit` to modify the word "Hello."  To add quotes around something, you can use the command `ys` followed by a motion and the character to surround it with.  For instance, inside of "hello", typing `ysiw(` will change it to "( hello )".
    * [vim-repeat](https://github.com/tpope/vim-repeat) lets plugins override `.` (the period) to repeat commands.  Allows you to use `.` with the vim-surround magic above.
* [nerdcommenter](https://github.com/scrooloose/nerdcommenter) lets you comment and uncomment things.  The most useful command is `,/` which comments or uncomments either the current line or the currently selected block.  This config has `,/` mapped to the Toggle instead of `,c` as listed in the docs (the rest of the commands use the `c` as listed).
* [vim-unimpaired](https://github.com/tpope/vim-unimpaired) contains a bunch of shortcuts for longer commands that start with colons.  Some of the better ones are:
    * `]q` and `[q` to go back and forth through the quickfix list (the result of using `:Ag` or `:Ack`).
    * `[f` and `]f` to navigate through files in the same directory as the current file.
    * `]n` and `[n` to go through merge conflicts.
    * It's not provided by this plugin, but `[h` and `]h` let you move through working copy changes in git in a similar manner.
* [gundo](http://sjl.bitbucket.org/gundo.vim/) lets you navigate your vim undo history as a tree.  Ever do that thing where you undo a few times, make a change, and want to undo your initial undo?  Type `:GundoToggle` and use the arrow keys to find the version you want.
* [tabular](https://github.com/godlygeek/tabular) makes it easy to make pretty ASCII tables and align equal signs of successive variable definitions.
* [syntastic](https://github.com/scrooloose/syntastic) runs your compiler or interpreter and displays syntax errors in vim.  A `>>` in the gutter means there is an error on that line, you can mouse over it for more details.
* [vim-airline](https://github.com/bling/vim-airline) sets the status bar and makes it more configurable and useful by showing things like the current Git branch, etc.
* [supertab](https://github.com/ervandew/supertab) lets you press Tab after Ctrl-P or Ctrl-N to cycle through completion options.
* [j-split](https://github.com/mgamba/j-split/blob/master/plugin/j-split.vim) converts spaces in the current line to new lines by pressing `,j` (kind of like a simple use of `xargs`).
* [diffthese](https://github.com/matt-royal/diffthese) lets you use vimdiff on open windows.  You can use `:DiffLeft`, `:DiffRight`, etc.  `:DiffThese` lets you specify window numbers with number 1 in the top left, increasing clockwise.
* [camelcasemotion](http://www.vim.org/scripts/script.php?script_id=1905) defines motions to work on camelCase text.  The usual motions `w`, `b`, and `e` get the friends `,w`, `,b`, and `,e` that move within a word.  If your cursor is on the first letter of `lolCatAge` and you press `,w`, you will go the "C" in "Cat."  You can also use them as text objects, for instance if you are on the lowercase "a" in "lolCatAge" you can type `ci,w` to change it to 'lolDogAge'.
* [edit-plus](https://github.com/mgamba/edit-plus/blob/master/plugin/edit-plus.vim) lets you refer to line numbers when opening files.  For instance, type `:EP README.md:10` to jump to line 10 of your helpful README.  Sometimes when you type `:e` it is automatically changed to `:EP`.  This is useful for opening test failures from the command line into vim.
* [quickfixfix](https://github.com/brysgo/quickfixfix) maps the NERDtree key bindings to the quickfix window.  If you open NERDtree (`\\`) and press `?`, the descriptions of `o`, `i`, `s`, and `go` can be used in the quickfix window.
* [vim-easymotion](https://github.com/Lokaltog/vim-easymotion) lets you use see where repeated motions would take you.  If you've ever used vimium's link navigation, it's like that.  Type the leader key twice and a motion to see a bunch of annotations in your file based on where repeated uses of that motion would take you, then press a number to go there.  For instance, to jump 2 words you can do `,,wb` instead of `2w`.
* [regreplop](http://www.vim.org/scripts/script.php?script_id=2702) lets you paste text over other text without destroying your default register.  Usually, if you yanked something and wanted to paste it over a word using `viwp`, you couldn't paste it again because the word you deleted overwrote what you originally yanked.  This plugin provides Ctrl-K to paste while keeping your buffer.  You can use it in visual mode or follow <Ctrl-K> with a motion.  Very handy for repeated replacements.
* [insert_mode_background_color](https://github.com/Peeja/insert_mode_background_color) changes the background color when you are insert mode.
* [vim-cdo](https://github.com/Peeja/vim-cdo) runs commands on every entry in the quickfix or location windows.  For instance, if you just searched for something with `:L9GrepBuffer foo` or `:Ag foo` and want to change the foos you found into bar, you could run `:Cdo s/foo/bar/`.  If you're doing a replacement like that, make sure not to do `:Cdo %s/.../...` with the percent sign because the first replacement in a file will mess up the later ones.  `:Ldo` is the same but for the location list, and suffix your commands with `/c` to confirm changes.
* [vim-snipmate](https://github.com/garbas/vim-snipmate) and [vim-snippets](https://github.com/honza/vim-snippets) provide TextMate like snippets where you can jump around the snippet with the tab key.
    * [vim-addon-mw-utils](https://github.com/MarcWeber/vim-addon-mw-utils) is a prequisite of snipmate
    * [tlib_vim](https://github.com/tomtom/tlib_vim) is as well
* [vim-textobj-user](https://github.com/kana/vim-textobj-user) allows definition of custom vim "nouns".
  * [vim-textobj-rubyblock](https://github.com/nelstrom/vim-textobj-rubyblock) lets you use `ar` and `ir` to select Ruby blocks just like you can do `a"` to select a string.
  * [kana/vim-textobj-line](https://github.com/kana/vim-textobj-line) selects entire lines.
    * `il` selects the entire line without leading or trailing whitespace.
    * `al` selects the entire line with all whitespace except for the linebreak.
    * `dd` continues to select the entire line including the linebreak.
  * [thinca/vim-textobj-between](https://github.com/thinca/vim-textobj-between) selects between arbitrary delimiters.
    * `if<delimiter>` selects the region between the delimiters, excluding the delimiters themselves.
    * `af<delimiter>` selects the region between the delimiters plus the delimiters.
    * Particularly useful with URLs. If `|` represents the cursor position: `/demonstration/with/riculo|usly/long/pathname/  -> cif/notso -> /demonstration/with/notso/long/pathname/`
  * [Julian/vim-textobj-variable-segment](https://github.com/Julian/vim-textobj-variable-segment) selects pieces of snake case or camel case identifiers. If `|` represents the cursor position:
    * `foo_ba|r_baz -> civquux -> foo_quux_baz`
    * `eggsAn|dCheese -> civOr -> eggsOrCheese`
* [YankRing](http://www.vim.org/scripts/script.php?script_id=1234)
lets you view and cycle through your previous copy and paste registers on the fly
	* After pasting use `<C-tab>` and `<C-S-tab>` to cycle through previously copied text.
	* In normal mode press `F6` to view previously copied text. Select one to paste it.

## Window Management
* [ZoomWin](http://www.vim.org/scripts/script.php?script_id=508) lets you close all other windows with `<C-w>o`.  You can restore all the closed windows with the same command.  Useful with `:tabo` to close everything but what you're working on.

## Searching
* [ack](https://github.com/mileszs/ack.vim) lets you shell out to ack within vim using `:Ack pattern [directory]`.  By default, results show up in the quickfix window.  You can use `:AckAdd` to append to the quickfix window or prefix 'Ack' with an 'L' to use the location list (just like `:grep`'s siblings).
* [ag](https://github.com/epmatsw/ag.vim) is the above but for ag ([a faster ack replacement](https://github.com/ggreer/the_silver_searcher))
* [vim-abolish](https://github.com/tpope/vim-abolish) deserves a few lines:
    * It replaces `teh` with `the`.  Say hello to autocorrect memes, Ruby edition.  You can define your own with a regex-like syntax.
    * It helps you replace things with capitalization differences.  If you had the line `foo = Foo.new`, you could run `:S/foo/bar/g` to get `bar = Bar.new` (note the capital 'S').  You can also use curly braces like you would on the command line, for instance `:%S/facilit{y,ies}/building{,s}/g`.
    * It converts between camelCase and snake_case.  Use `cr` followed 's' for snake_case, 'm' for MixedCase, 'c' for camelCase, or 'u' for UPPER_CASE (these work within the current word and don't take a motion).
* [vim-qargs](https://github.com/nelstrom/vim-qargs) ([stack overflow](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/5686206/search-replace-using-quickfix-list-in-vim/5686810#5686810)) is kind of like Cdo.
* [ctrlp](https://github.com/kien/ctrlp.vim) is a fuzzy file finder invoked by hitting Ctrl-P in normal mode and typing some part of the file name you'd like to open.  This config also has `,f` mapped to the same function.

## Navigation
* [nerdtree](https://github.com/scrooloose/nerdtree) puts a directory tree on the left side of the screen.  Press `\` to open it at your project root, or `Shift-\` to open it with the current file selected.  You can press `m` to move, delete, or create files.  Press `?` inside the tree to get more help.
* [tagbar](http://majutsushi.github.io/tagbar/) puts ctags for the current file in a pane on the right.  Make sure [ctags](http://ctags.sourceforge.net/) is installed and then do `:TagbarToggle` to see them in vim.

## Development Tool Integration
* [vim-fugitive](https://github.com/tpope/vim-fugitive) puts git into vim.  It can do almost everything git related, some of the most useful features are:
    * `:Gblame` to blame the current file.  Press enter on a commit to see the full commit.  Do `:Gedit` to go back to the current version (or just open it again).
    * `:Gread` to check out the current file from git.  Very useful if you made some experimental changes that you want to get rid of.
    * `:Gbrowse` to open the current file on GitHub, useful for sending links to other people.
* [vim-gitgutter](https://github.com/airblade/vim-gitgutter) puts + and - signs in the gutter to show you what's changed in your working tree.  Use `[h` and `]h` to navigate between modified hunks. This plugin can slow down vim, so remove it if you're having problems.
* [tmux-config](https://github.com/pivotal/tmux-config) integrates tmux with Vim.  It helps with autosave support and pasting your tmux buffer into vim.
* [vim-dispatch](https://github.com/tpope/vim-dispatch) supplies `:Make` and `:Make!` which run in the background instead of blocking like `:make`.
* [ConqueTerm](http://code.google.com/p/conque/) lets your run interactive commands within vim.  Try `:ConqueTerm bash`.
* [vitality.vim](https://github.com/sjl/vitality.vim) makes Vim play nicely with iTerm2 and tmux. It adds things like cursor change on insert mode and focus-lost detection for triggering auto-save.

## Colorschemes
* [Vivid Chalk](https://github.com/tpope/vim-vividchalk)
* [Molokai](https://github.com/tomasr/molokai)
* [Solarized](http://ethanschoonover.com/solarized) ([github](https://github.com/altercation/vim-colors-solarized))
* [ir_black](https://github.com/wesgibbs/vim-irblack)
* [tomorrow](https://github.com/chriskempson/vim-tomorrow-theme)
* [candycode](http://www.vim.org/scripts/script.php?script_id=1635)
* Color-Sampler-Pack
* [colorschemes](https://github.com/flazz/vim-colorschemes)
* [base16](https://github.com/chriskempson/base16-vim)

## Languages
* [vim-ruby](https://github.com/vim-ruby/vim-ruby)
* [vim-javascript](https://github.com/pangloss/vim-javascript)
* [vim-markdown](https://github.com/plasticboy/vim-markdown)
* [vim-slim](https://github.com/slim-template/vim-slim)
* [vim-handlebars](https://github.com/nono/vim-handlebars)
* [vim-coffee-script](https://github.com/kchmck/vim-coffee-script)
* [vim-haml](https://github.com/tpope/vim-haml)
* [vim-cucumber](https://github.com/tpope/vim-cucumber)
* [mustache.vim](https://github.com/juvenn/mustache.vim)
* [vim-gocode](https://github.com/Blackrush/vim-gocode)
* [scala-vim-support](https://github.com/rosstimson/scala-vim-support)
* [vim-clojure-static](https://github.com/guns/vim-clojure-static)
* [csv.vim](https://github.com/chrisbra/csv.vim)

# Advanced

## Updating manually

First, fetch the latest vim-config via Git. You can also rebase or merge your
own project-specific customizations.

To install the necessary bundles:

    vim +PluginInstall +qall # or run :PluginInstall within Vim

To upgrade bundles to their latest version, use the bang version:

    vim +PluginInstall! +qall # or run :PluginInstall! within Vim

## tmux support (optional)

If you will be using VIM with tmux for remote pairing or window management, see
the [pivotal/tmux-config README](https://github.com/pivotal/tmux-config).
